# ReactJS Blog Application with Laravel Sanctum API
Github Repository Link: [ https://github.com/anudip-2014/my-blog-application.git](https://github.com/anudip-2014/my-blog-application.git)

## Getting Started

### Installation
Requires Laravel 11.x, PHP 8.1+ to run.

Clone the repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/anudip-2014/my-blog-application.git
cd project-directory
```
Make sure you have composer installed in your system and install dependencies.
```sh
composer install
```
Install MongoDB driver for Windows from the [PECL webiste](https://pecl.php.net/package/mongodb) and follow the instructions to install it.

### Configuring
Copying the .env.example to .env and modifying according to the environment:
```sh
cp .env.example .env
```
Generate application key:
```sh
php artisan key:generate
```
Setting up the database and other environment variables in .env:
```sh
DB_CONNECTION=mongodb
DB_HOST=127.0.0.1
DB_PORT=27016
DB_DATABASE=your_database
DB_USERNAME=your_username
DB_PASSWORD=your_password
```

## Usage
```sh
php artisan migrate  # To create the database schema
php artisan db:seed  # To seed the database with initial data
```

### Running the project
```
php artisan serve
```
Access the application via
```sh
http://localhost:8000 or 127.0.0.1:8000
```
## Approach 
### 1. API Development
Utilizing the PublicPostController, necessary API endpoints were created.
 
* GET /api/posts: Retrieve all blog posts.
* GET /api/posts{id}: Retrieve a specific blog post by ID.

### 2. Sanctum Integration:
I integrated Laravel Sanctum to manage authentication and API token generation. This allows the backend to protect certain routes (like creating, updating, and deleting posts), while keeping the "read" operations (like fetching posts) public.

### 3. Database Integration (MongoDB):
MongoDB was used to store the blog posts, and I ensured the Post model and migrations were configured correctly to use the MongoDB driver. Each blog post contains fields for id, title, and content, with the id field automatically generated by MongoDB.

## Challenges
### 1. MongoDB Integration 
One of the primary challenges was setting up MongoDB with Laravel, especially ensuring the mongodb/laravel-mongodb package worked smoothly with Eloquent models. Adjusting the model and migration logic to work with MongoDB took some trial and error.

### 2. Sanctum and API Authentication
Integrating Sanctum and handling both authenticated and public routes posed some challenges. Ensuring that API endpoints like POST, PUT, and DELETE were properly protected while keeping the GET requests public required careful configuration of middleware.


